docs: identity provider docs (#5565)
zitadel/zitadel: docs/docs/guides/integrate/identity-providers/github.md

---
title: Configure GitHub as Identity Provider
sidebar_label: GitHub
---

import GeneralConfigDescription from './_general_config_description.mdx';

This guides shows you how to connect GitHub or GitHub Enterprise as an identity provider in ZITADEL.

:::info
In ZITADEL you can connect an Identity Provider (IdP) like GitHub to your instance and provide it as default to all organizations or you can register the IdP to a specific organization only. This can also be done through your customers in a self-service fashion.
:::

## Prerequisite

> Make sure to read and follow the [General Guide](./general) on how to setup identity providers for your ZITADEL instance first, before you go through the specific guide here.

Reviewer: comment is obsolete if we implement https://github.com/zitadel/zitadel/pull/5565#pullrequestreview-1374481217

> Make sure to read and follow the [General Guide](./general) on how to setup identity providers for your ZITADEL instance first, before you go through the specific guide here.

Reviewer: https://github.com/zitadel/zitadel/pull/5656

## GitHub Configuration

### Register a new application

For **GitHub** browse to the [Register a new OAuth application](https://github.com/settings/applications/new). You can find this link withing [Settings](https://github.com/settings/profile) - [Developer Settings](https://github.com/settings/apps) - - [OAuth Apps](https://github.com/settings/developers).

For **GitHub Enterprise** go to your GitHub Enterprise home page and then to Settings - Developer Settings - OAuth Apps - Register a new application/New OAuth App

Fill in the application name and homepage URL.

> You have to add the authorization callback URL, where GitHub should redirect, after the user has authenticated himself.

Reviewer: outdated

In this example our test instance has the domain `https://acme-gzoe4x.zitadel.cloud`.
This results in the following authorization callback URL:
 `https://acme-gzoe4x.zitadel.cloud/ui/login/login/externalidp/callback`

:::info
To adapt this for you setup just replace the domain
:::

![Register an OAuth application](/img/guides/github_oauth_app_registration.png)

### Client ID and Secret

After clicking "Register application", you will see the detail page of the application you have just created.
Copy the client ID you can copy directly from the detail page. 
Generate a new secret by clicking "Generate new client secret".
Make sure to save the secret, as you will not be able to show it again.

![Client ID and Secret](/img/guides/github_oauth_client_id_secret.png)

## ZITADEL Configuration

### Create new GitHub Provider

Go to the settings of your ZITADEL instance or the organization where you like to add a new GitHub provider.

> Choose the GitHub provider template. This template has everything you need preconfigured. You only have to add the client ID and secret, you have created in the step before.

Reviewer: outdated

You can configure the following settings if you like, a useful default will be filled if you don't change anything:

> **Scopes**: The scopes define which scopes will be sent to the provider, `openid`, `profile`, and `email` are prefilled. This informations will be taken to create/update the user within ZITADEL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Scopes**: The scopes define which scopes will be sent to the provider, `openid`, `profile`, and `email` are prefilled.
This information is used to create and/or update the user within ZITADEL.
```

<GeneralConfigDescription name="GeneralConfigDescription" />

![GitHub Provider](/img/guides/zitadel_github_create_provider.png)

### Activate IdP

Once you created the IdP you need to activate it, to make it usable for your users.

![Activate the GitHub](/img/guides/zitadel_activate_github.png)

## Test the setup

To test the setup use incognito mode and browse to your login page.
If you succeeded you should see a new button which should redirect you to your GitHub.

> Per default the login of your instance will be shown, read the following section on how to trigger it for a specific organization: [Organization Scope](./general#trigger-configuration-on-the-login-for-a-specific-organization)

Reviewer: Can we centralize this?

Reviewer: comment is obsolete if we implement https://github.com/zitadel/zitadel/pull/5565#pullrequestreview-1374481217
